feat: Add conditions that reflect status of different Telemetry components (#333)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/06-conditions.md

# Telemetry CR conditions

> This section describes the possible states of the Telemetry CR. There are conditions type `LogComponentsHealthy`, `TraceComponentsHealthy` and `MetricComponentsHealthy` representing state of each of the subcomponents. The state of the Telemetry CR is derived from combined state of all the subcomponents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the possible states of the Telemetry CR. 
The state of the Telemetry CR is derived from the combined state of all the subcomponents, namely, from the condition types `LogComponentsHealthy`, `TraceComponentsHealthy` and `MetricComponentsHealthy`. 
```

> 

Reviewer: In each of the following three tables, which value does the column "Condition Type" add? It's identical in all lines. Couldn't this simply be the headline of each section, or an introductory sentence?

Reviewer 2: You are right, it does not make much sense. Will remove it together with the numbers

> ## Log Components State

Reviewer: For example, drop the column "Condition Type" and instead write:

```suggestion
## Log Components State

The state of the log components is determined by the status of the condition type `LogComponentsHealthy`:
```

Reviewer 2: Changed it. Also rewrote the last paragraph, the table there was not mathematically correct (not all options were listed). Changed it to a plane text.

| True             | ReasonTraceCollectorDeploymentReady    | Trace collector Deployment is ready        |
| False            | ReasonReferencedSecretMissing          | One or more referenced Secrets are missing |
| False            | ReasonTraceCollectorDeploymentNotReady | Trace collector Deployment is not ready    |

## Metric Components State

The state of the metric components is determined by the status condition of type `MetricComponentsHealthy`

| Condition status | Condition reason                         | Message                                     |
|------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| True             | ReasonNoPipelineDeployed                 | No pipelines have been deployed            |
| True             | ReasonMetricGatewayDeploymentReady       | Metric gateway Deployment is ready         |
| False            | ReasonReferencedSecretMissing            | One or more referenced Secrets are missing |
| False            | ReasonMetricGatewayDeploymentNotReady    | Metric gateway Deployment is not ready     |

## Telemetry CR State

> The state of Telemetry CR is set to 'Ready' only if all the subcomponent conditions (LogComponentsHealthy, TraceComponentsHealthy, and MetricComponentsHealthy) have a status of 'True.' If any of these conditions are not 'True,' the overall state is set to 'Warning.'

Reviewer: Playing around with more similar phrasing so it's easier to read quickly :

Option with status at the end (in this case, no change to line 43):

```suggestion
Only if all the subcomponent conditions (LogComponentsHealthy, TraceComponentsHealthy, and MetricComponentsHealthy) have a status of 'True', the state of Telemetry CR is set to 'Ready'.
If any of these conditions are not 'True,' the overall state is set to 'Warning.'
```
Option with status at the beginning (in this case, also adjusting line 43):

```suggestion
- 'Ready': Only if all the subcomponent conditions (LogComponentsHealthy, TraceComponentsHealthy, and MetricComponentsHealthy) have a status of 'True.' 
- 'Warning': If any of these conditions are not 'True'.
- 'Deleting': When a Telemetry CR is being deleted.
- 'Error': If the deletion is blocked because some dependent resources exist.
```

## Metric Components State

The state of the metric components is determined by the status condition of type `MetricComponentsHealthy`:

| Condition status | Condition reason                         | Message                                     |
|------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| True             | ReasonNoPipelineDeployed                 | No pipelines have been deployed            |
| True             | ReasonMetricGatewayDeploymentReady       | Metric gateway Deployment is ready         |
| False            | ReasonReferencedSecretMissing            | One or more referenced Secrets are missing |
| False            | ReasonMetricGatewayDeploymentNotReady    | Metric gateway Deployment is not ready     |

## Telemetry CR State

- 'Ready': Only if all the subcomponent conditions (LogComponentsHealthy, TraceComponentsHealthy, and MetricComponentsHealthy) have a status of 'True.' 
- 'Warning': If any of these conditions are not 'True'.
- 'Deleting': When a Telemetry CR is being deleted.
- 'Error': If the deletion is blocked because some dependent resources exist.

> When a Telemetry CR is being deleted, its state is set to 'Deleting'. If the deletion is blocked due to the existence of some dependent resources, the state is changed to 'Error'.

Reviewer: drop this, it's already in line 44/45 ;)

But what about status "Processing"?

> When a Telemetry CR is being deleted, its state is set to 'Deleting'. If the deletion is blocked due to the existence of some dependent resources, the state is changed to 'Error'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We can drop this, it's already in line 44/45 ;)

But what about status "Processing", which is mentioned in the CR?
